#Comparison with Iterative and Scrum
An iterative lifecycle model does not attempt to start with a full specification of requirements. Instead, development begins by specifying and implementing just part of the software, which is then reviewed in order to identify further requirements. Whereas agile is also iterative in nature but a give problem is broken into several smaller portions and there are multiple iteration. Here are some differences between agile and iterative:
*Iterative is set of multiple mini waterfall models, but the shortcomings that were faced with the waterfall model still exist. for example even though there are multiple iterations, the requirements are fixed way before the actual product is being built. the products built have a low quality along with cascading delays in terms of project timelines.
Scrum is incremental and iterative in nature. Iterative development splits a larger problem into several smaller parts and tackles each smaller problem at a time. The scrum method assumes that all the requirements that are gathered are just an estimate and not the final requirements. It supports the process It encourages a tight feedback loop to incorporate new knowledge, emerging requirements and innovative ideas even late in the process. Incrementing in addition to iterating towards a solution hugely increases the chances of success.
*Unlike the iterative model where the customer interaction during the building of the project is minimal, Scrum encourages the development of products by involving customers and end users while they product is built. This helps in understanding the requirements of the customers in detail as well as the product that is built is the built by learning watching and asking the customers what they want.
*Iterative model test all the products at the end of the cycle. If by any chance the test cases fail for the product during the final stages of the project and the the error is caused due to a few mistakes in the earlier stages then, it gets very difficult to fix the problem and the project runs into overhead costs. Whereas in the Scrum methodology after every sprint, the deliverable is of high quality as it is ready to be shipped, by doing so the project overhead costs drastically reduce and also quality of the product is never compromised. 
*Iterative mechanism does not support customer interaction. All the involvement of the customer is restricted to the planning phase. If there are any changes to be incorporated in the final stages of the project then the changes can not be made without increasing the project risks. Whereas in Scrum right from the very start, the customer is involved in each and every deliverable after every sprint. Also the customer has the option of choosing what feature he wants to be implemented first.
